NAME -
     pingrit - the PingRIT Project data mining script

SYNOPSIS -
     pingrit [-a] start_subnet [end_subnet]

DESCRIPTION -
     The PingRIT Project data mining script performs a ping of all IPv4
     addresses within the last two octets of the IPv4 address. The script
     begins by pinging the address with one packet, it will time out after one
     second. If a response is recieved within the time, the address is sent 
     through cURL to retrieve the potential web server headers. The HTTP 
     response code is stored, or zero is stored if no code is sent. 
     Regardless of a ping response, the script performs a nslookup on the 
     address to determine if the address is registered in any name servers. All
     this gathered information is stored and sent to a MySQL database. This 
     database is then accessed by the web portion of the PingRIT Project.

     The command line syntax is as follows:
     
     -a     runs the script in append mode, ignoring the command that empties
            the table of ip address information.
            Useful for running the script in blocks.

     start_subnet     the subnet at which to begin checking
                      x in 192.168.x.y

     end_subnet       the subnet at which to stop checking
                      If not provided, is set to 254
                      x in 192.168.x.y

     Examples:

     pingrit 49
            Analyzes all ip addresses from x.y.49.1 to x.y.49.254
            Also empties the database before performing

     pingrit -a 49
            Adds records to the database for the same address range as in the
            previous example

     pingrit 49 60
            Analyzes all ip addresses from x.y.49.1 to x.y.60.254


INSTALLATION-
     Requirements for running the script:
          - MySQL database on local machine (see database setup)
          - grep with egrep support
          - ping 
          - cURL
          - nslookup

    Requirements for the web display:
          - MySQL database
          - PHP5+
    
    Database Setup:
        Before running the script, a database must be set up to house the data
        that the script will collect. Create a database in MySQL and run the
        SQL code in the included install.sql file. This will generate the two
        tables that store both the information for the ip addresses and the 
        statistics. It is also a good idea to set up a user with only access
        to the database you set up for PingRIT. This user at the bare minimum
        needs access to SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE from the database.

    Script Setup:
        The script must be correctly modified to enable storage of the info in
        the database. In 'pingrit' there is are four variables that must be set
        to fit your set up.
        IP_BASE    -    The base of all the IP addresses. It must end with a .
                        Ex: 192.168. in 192.168.125.1 
        MYSQL_USER   -  The username that has access to your PingRIT database.
        MYSQL_PASS   -  Password for that database
        MYSQL_DB    -   The database that will store the information
    
    Web Setup:
        Similar to the script set up, the web portion (although optional) needs
        to be set up before launching. Upload the site files to your choice of
        web space. Create a file called pingrit.conf in the folder of the other
        web files. An example of the fields required is provided as the
        pingrit.conf.sample file. 

HISTORY -
     PingRIT was a project developed out of boredom and then submitted to
     Computer Science House at Rochester Institute of Technology as a yearly
     major project. Its status as such has yet to be determined.

AUTHOR -
     Benjamin Russell (benrr101@csh.rit.edu)

     Contributors:
     Will Orr, Ryan Brown, Grant Kurtz (albeit in small doses)
